content/post/migrating-from-yarn-to-npm.md, before:

---
title: "Migrating From Yarn to npm"
date: 2024-02-06T21:11:52+11:00
tags:
  - software development
  - javascript
  - guide
---

There's probably multiple articles of this sort online. But I'm going to be doing these same steps for a few of my projects so I figured I might as well make a post about it 🦀

This guide covers how to switch from Yarn to npm to manage dependencies for a project. This guide assumes a non-complex setup (eg: no monorepos). This guide will **not** cover migrating away from specific features such as [Yarn workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces).

To switch from Yarn to npm run the following steps in your project's folder:

1. Remove `yarn.lock` as this file will no longer be used.
2. Run `npm install`. This will generate a [`package-lock.json` file](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/configuring-npm/package-lock-json).
3. Use `git grep yarn` to find any remaining references to `yarn`. Replace these references either with an [equivalent from npm cli](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/commands) or other command as appropriate.
4. Try running and building your application to confirm that it still works.

Here's some other things that you may need to check:

- [Yarn's resolutions](https://yarnpkg.com/configuration/manifest#resolutions) can be replaced with [npm's overrides](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/configuring-npm/package-json#overrides) provided that you are using [npm v8.3.0](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/changelog#v830-2021-12-09) or newer.
- I have not verified this yet, but [`.yarnrc` or `.yarnrc.yaml` files](https://yarnpkg.com/configuration/yarnrc) could potentially be replaced with an [.npmrc](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/configuring-npm/npmrc) file. Available config options can be found in [config | npm Docs](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/using-npm/config).

Commit message:

Add description to past blog posts
This fixes an issue where the meta description tag renders
walls of text as it defaults to the content of the post

The description is also displayed on the index page,
so users have more of an idea of what to expect

content/post/migrating-from-yarn-to-npm.md, after:

---
title: "Migrating From Yarn to npm"
date: 2024-02-06T21:11:52+11:00
description: A guide on how to switch from Yarn to npm for dependency management
tags:
  - software development
  - javascript
  - guide
---

There's probably multiple articles of this sort online. But I'm going to be doing these same steps for a few of my projects so I figured I might as well make a post about it 🦀

This guide covers how to switch from Yarn to npm to manage dependencies for a project. This guide assumes a non-complex setup (eg: no monorepos). This guide will **not** cover migrating away from specific features such as [Yarn workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces).

To switch from Yarn to npm run the following steps in your project's folder:

1. Remove `yarn.lock` as this file will no longer be used.
2. Run `npm install`. This will generate a [`package-lock.json` file](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/configuring-npm/package-lock-json).
3. Use `git grep yarn` to find any remaining references to `yarn`. Replace these references either with an [equivalent from npm cli](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/commands) or other command as appropriate.
4. Try running and building your application to confirm that it still works.

Here's some other things that you may need to check:

- [Yarn's resolutions](https://yarnpkg.com/configuration/manifest#resolutions) can be replaced with [npm's overrides](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/configuring-npm/package-json#overrides) provided that you are using [npm v8.3.0](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/changelog#v830-2021-12-09) or newer.
- I have not verified this yet, but [`.yarnrc` or `.yarnrc.yaml` files](https://yarnpkg.com/configuration/yarnrc) could potentially be replaced with an [.npmrc](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/configuring-npm/npmrc) file. Available config options can be found in [config | npm Docs](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v10/using-npm/config).
