content/post/pixel-art-resources.md, before:

---
title: "Pixel art resources"
date: 2024-01-30T23:45:04+11:00
tags:
  - pixel art
---

Interesting in picking up pixel art? Here's some resources I've found useful.

Some of these were already recommended in my previous blog post. For those of you who already read that post, there's some new links in this post too.

# Tutorials
## Getting Started
- [Pixel Art: Where to Start | Lospec](https://lospec.com/articles/pixel-art-where-to-start/)
- [The Pixel Art Tutorial | Pixel Joint](https://pixeljoint.com/forum/forum_posts.asp?TID=11299)
- [The Ultimate Pixel Art Tutorial by Saultoons | Youtube (14m 14s)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lfR7Qj04-UA)

## Collections
- [Tutorials | Lospec](https://lospec.com/pixel-art-tutorials)
- [/r/PixelArtTutorials](https://reddit.com/r/PixelArtTutorials)
- [Tutorials by Slynyrd | Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/collection/101711?view=expanded)
- [Tutorials by PixelArtJourney | Tumblr](https://pixelartjourney.tumblr.com/archive/tagged/tutorial)

## A few tutorials I've used
- [Rock tutorial by Franrekk | Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/PixelArt/comments/ipubd3/mini_pixelart_rock_tutorial/)
- [Bush tutorial by Franrekk | Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/PixelArt/comments/16z4lt4/pixelart_bush_tutorial/)
- [Cloud tutorial by 8pxl | Twitter](https://twitter.com/16pxl/status/1279858416266051584)
- [Cloud tutorial by Pedro Medeiros | Twitter](https://twitter.com/saint11/status/894948250289139713)
- [Dithering tutorial by Sadface_RL | Reddit](https://old.reddit.com/r/PixelArt/comments/c4krcr/dithering_tutorial_for_beginners/)
- [Landscape Pixeling by Slynyrd](https://www.slynyrd.com/blog/2018/11/16/pixelblog-11-landscape-pixeling)
- [Cityscapes by Slynyrd](https://www.slynyrd.com/blog/2019/2/23/pixelblog-14-cityscapes)
- [Watercolour style by Franrekk | Reddit](https://reddit.com/r/PixelArt/comments/ll0057/people_been_asking_how_to_do_the/)

# Tools
- [Pixel Art Software List | Lospec](https://lospec.com/pixel-art-software-list/)
- [Palette List | Lospec](https://lospec.com/palette-list)

# Some pixel artists for inspiration
- waneella ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/waneella_), [Tumblr](https://waneella.tumblr.com/), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/waneella/))
- 8pxl ([Website](https://8pxl.co/), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/16pxl), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/8pxl_/))
- Franek ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/Franrekk), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/franek_pixelart))
- Pixel Art Journey ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/PixelArtJourney/), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/pixelartjj))
- StuntmAEn Bob ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/StuntmAEn_Bob))
- pixelianska ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/pixelianska), [Instagram](https://instagram.com/pixelianska))
- nyura_kim ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/nyura_kim), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/nyurakim/))
- SalamiChild ([Website](https://salamichild.wordpress.com/), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/SalamiChild))
- yuugapaint ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/yuugapaint))
- evsailey ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/evsailey))
- Ryan h ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/Myartbytes1))
- 1041uuu ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/1041uuu))
- Slynyrd ([Website](https://www.slynyrd.com/), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/rayslynyrd))

# Drawing prompts + challenges
- [Pixel Dailies | Twitter](https://twitter.com/Pixel_Dailies)
- [Lospec Dailies](https://lospec.com/dailies/)
- Swordtember (During September) - Has a few variants. Founded by [faith_schaffer](https://www.instagram.com/faith_schaffer)
- [Colour Wheel Challenge](https://twitter.com/Ankinluu_/status/1654934099373555712)

# Communities
- [#pixelart | Twitter](https://twitter.com/hashtag/pixelart)
- [Pixel Dailies | Twitter](https://twitter.com/Pixel_Dailies)
- [/r/PixelArt](https://www.reddit.com/r/PixelArt/)
- [#PortfolioDay](https://www.portfolioday.art/)
- [Lospec Discord](https://lospec.com/discord)

Commit message:

Add description to past blog posts
This fixes an issue where the meta description tag renders
walls of text as it defaults to the content of the post

The description is also displayed on the index page,
so users have more of an idea of what to expect

content/post/pixel-art-resources.md, after:

---
title: "Pixel art resources"
date: 2024-01-30T23:45:04+11:00
description: Suggested links for those looking to draw more pixel art
tags:
  - pixel art
---

Interesting in picking up pixel art? Here's some resources I've found useful.

Some of these were already recommended in my previous blog post. For those of you who already read that post, there's some new links in this post too.

# Tutorials
## Getting Started
- [Pixel Art: Where to Start | Lospec](https://lospec.com/articles/pixel-art-where-to-start/)
- [The Pixel Art Tutorial | Pixel Joint](https://pixeljoint.com/forum/forum_posts.asp?TID=11299)
- [The Ultimate Pixel Art Tutorial by Saultoons | Youtube (14m 14s)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lfR7Qj04-UA)

## Collections
- [Tutorials | Lospec](https://lospec.com/pixel-art-tutorials)
- [/r/PixelArtTutorials](https://reddit.com/r/PixelArtTutorials)
- [Tutorials by Slynyrd | Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/collection/101711?view=expanded)
- [Tutorials by PixelArtJourney | Tumblr](https://pixelartjourney.tumblr.com/archive/tagged/tutorial)

## A few tutorials I've used
- [Rock tutorial by Franrekk | Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/PixelArt/comments/ipubd3/mini_pixelart_rock_tutorial/)
- [Bush tutorial by Franrekk | Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/PixelArt/comments/16z4lt4/pixelart_bush_tutorial/)
- [Cloud tutorial by 8pxl | Twitter](https://twitter.com/16pxl/status/1279858416266051584)
- [Cloud tutorial by Pedro Medeiros | Twitter](https://twitter.com/saint11/status/894948250289139713)
- [Dithering tutorial by Sadface_RL | Reddit](https://old.reddit.com/r/PixelArt/comments/c4krcr/dithering_tutorial_for_beginners/)
- [Landscape Pixeling by Slynyrd](https://www.slynyrd.com/blog/2018/11/16/pixelblog-11-landscape-pixeling)
- [Cityscapes by Slynyrd](https://www.slynyrd.com/blog/2019/2/23/pixelblog-14-cityscapes)
- [Watercolour style by Franrekk | Reddit](https://reddit.com/r/PixelArt/comments/ll0057/people_been_asking_how_to_do_the/)

# Tools
- [Pixel Art Software List | Lospec](https://lospec.com/pixel-art-software-list/)
- [Palette List | Lospec](https://lospec.com/palette-list)

# Some pixel artists for inspiration
- waneella ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/waneella_), [Tumblr](https://waneella.tumblr.com/), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/waneella/))
- 8pxl ([Website](https://8pxl.co/), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/16pxl), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/8pxl_/))
- Franek ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/Franrekk), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/franek_pixelart))
- Pixel Art Journey ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/PixelArtJourney/), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/pixelartjj))
- StuntmAEn Bob ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/StuntmAEn_Bob))
- pixelianska ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/pixelianska), [Instagram](https://instagram.com/pixelianska))
- nyura_kim ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/nyura_kim), [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/nyurakim/))
- SalamiChild ([Website](https://salamichild.wordpress.com/), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/SalamiChild))
- yuugapaint ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/yuugapaint))
- evsailey ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/evsailey))
- Ryan h ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/Myartbytes1))
- 1041uuu ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/1041uuu))
- Slynyrd ([Website](https://www.slynyrd.com/), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/rayslynyrd))

# Drawing prompts + challenges
- [Pixel Dailies | Twitter](https://twitter.com/Pixel_Dailies)
- [Lospec Dailies](https://lospec.com/dailies/)
- Swordtember (During September) - Has a few variants. Founded by [faith_schaffer](https://www.instagram.com/faith_schaffer)
- [Colour Wheel Challenge](https://twitter.com/Ankinluu_/status/1654934099373555712)

# Communities
- [#pixelart | Twitter](https://twitter.com/hashtag/pixelart)
- [Pixel Dailies | Twitter](https://twitter.com/Pixel_Dailies)
- [/r/PixelArt](https://www.reddit.com/r/PixelArt/)
- [#PortfolioDay](https://www.portfolioday.art/)
- [Lospec Discord](https://lospec.com/discord)
