content/post/how-i-got-into-pixel-art/index.md, before:

---
title: "How I got into pixel art"
date: 2023-11-25T00:10:17+11:00
tags:
  - pixel art
  - stories
---

The usual answer I give is that I got into pixel art to get through the lockdowns in 2020. But there's usually other things involved in picking up a new hobby, like learning how to do said hobby, finding inspiration and more.

So here's a longer answer:

I grew up with NES and SNES games so pixel art was a familiar medium. Somehow I stumbled across [The Spriters Resource](https://www.spriters-resource.com/) which had sprite sheets for all these classic games I knew. My first somewhat-real experience with pixel art was recolouring and modifying sprites taken from that site in an attempt to learn how to replicate their style. I lost these early attempts due to a hard drive failure but those attempts made me appreciate how much could be expressed in so few pixels.

Over time I found [/r/PixelArt](https://reddit.com/r/PixelArt/) and [Twitter's #pixelart hashtag](https://twitter.com/hashtag/pixelart). On Twitter (or X) I started following pixel artists like [@waneella_](https://twitter.com/waneella_), [Jubilee (@16pxl)](https://twitter.com/16pxl), [@SalamiChild](https://twitter.com/SalamiChild) and many more. Up until this point I had primarily seen pixel art in the context of sprites and video games. By following these artists and communities I started to see how pixel art could be its own thing.

I tried replicating some scenery from photos I had taken. I dove right in and had no idea what I was doing. I didn't know what canvas size I should use or how to choose a good colour palette. I tried using something like a 200x150px canvas but that failed because that's way too many pixels to deal with as a beginner.

At some point I noticed that /r/PixelArt had a link to [Lospec's Pixel Art: Where to Start](https://lospec.com/articles/pixel-art-where-to-start/) guide. Lospec also had a [collection of palettes](https://lospec.com/palette-list) and its own [pixel art editor](https://lospec.com/pixel-editor) which had a default size of 64x64px - a much more approachable canvas size than my previous attempt.

I started practicing pixel art by completing [Lospec Dailies](https://lospec.com/dailies/) and [Pixel Dailies](https://twitter.com/Pixel_Dailies). At first I used Lospec's pixel art editor but then switched to [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org/) as it was free and seemed to have more features. 

I also used this hobby to start a new side project, a [pixel art gallery](https://github.com/PakkuDon/pixel-art-gallery), so that I could host my pixel art and share it with people I knew. Thanks to their encouragement and support I've posted 400+ pixel art entries. Maybe one day I'll feel confident enough to share my art with the broader community. But for now, this will do. :D

![](images/pixel-art-gallery-proto.png)
_[Pixel Art Gallery](https://github.com/PakkuDon/pixel-art-gallery) on November 1 2020 [(commit cf37d41)](https://github.com/PakkuDon/pixel-art-gallery/tree/cf37d41db7f965e49fa8a3245699b068c92d9f09). First iteration where pixel art images were displayed_

So what advice could I give to someone thinking of getting into pixel art? These have likely been said elsewhere, but here's some of my thoughts:

- Start small. The more details you try to include or the larger your canvas, the longer it's going to take to finish drawing. I found 64x64px to be a comfortable canvas size to start with, but 32x32px or 16x16px canvases are also common.
- Follow pixel artists and join some communities. You can learn a lot from seeing how other people draw.
- Find some tutorials. There's plenty on Twitter, YouTube or other social media platforms.
- Keep practicing. Progress is not always linear but your skills will improve over time.
- Most importantly, have fun! Hobbies are not meant to be stressful. Take things at your own pace. At the end of the day we're all in this capitalist hellscape together. 🔥

Thanks for reading this post. See you at the next one! 👋

Commit message:

Add description to past blog posts
This fixes an issue where the meta description tag renders
walls of text as it defaults to the content of the post

The description is also displayed on the index page,
so users have more of an idea of what to expect

content/post/how-i-got-into-pixel-art/index.md, after:

---
title: "How I got into pixel art"
date: 2023-11-25T00:10:17+11:00
description: A story or something about picking up a new hobby and finding inspiration for it
tags:
  - pixel art
  - stories
---

The usual answer I give is that I got into pixel art to get through the lockdowns in 2020. But there's usually other things involved in picking up a new hobby, like learning how to do said hobby, finding inspiration and more.

So here's a longer answer:

I grew up with NES and SNES games so pixel art was a familiar medium. Somehow I stumbled across [The Spriters Resource](https://www.spriters-resource.com/) which had sprite sheets for all these classic games I knew. My first somewhat-real experience with pixel art was recolouring and modifying sprites taken from that site in an attempt to learn how to replicate their style. I lost these early attempts due to a hard drive failure but those attempts made me appreciate how much could be expressed in so few pixels.

Over time I found [/r/PixelArt](https://reddit.com/r/PixelArt/) and [Twitter's #pixelart hashtag](https://twitter.com/hashtag/pixelart). On Twitter (or X) I started following pixel artists like [@waneella_](https://twitter.com/waneella_), [Jubilee (@16pxl)](https://twitter.com/16pxl), [@SalamiChild](https://twitter.com/SalamiChild) and many more. Up until this point I had primarily seen pixel art in the context of sprites and video games. By following these artists and communities I started to see how pixel art could be its own thing.

I tried replicating some scenery from photos I had taken. I dove right in and had no idea what I was doing. I didn't know what canvas size I should use or how to choose a good colour palette. I tried using something like a 200x150px canvas but that failed because that's way too many pixels to deal with as a beginner.

At some point I noticed that /r/PixelArt had a link to [Lospec's Pixel Art: Where to Start](https://lospec.com/articles/pixel-art-where-to-start/) guide. Lospec also had a [collection of palettes](https://lospec.com/palette-list) and its own [pixel art editor](https://lospec.com/pixel-editor) which had a default size of 64x64px - a much more approachable canvas size than my previous attempt.

I started practicing pixel art by completing [Lospec Dailies](https://lospec.com/dailies/) and [Pixel Dailies](https://twitter.com/Pixel_Dailies). At first I used Lospec's pixel art editor but then switched to [GIMP](https://www.gimp.org/) as it was free and seemed to have more features. 

I also used this hobby to start a new side project, a [pixel art gallery](https://github.com/PakkuDon/pixel-art-gallery), so that I could host my pixel art and share it with people I knew. Thanks to their encouragement and support I've posted 400+ pixel art entries. Maybe one day I'll feel confident enough to share my art with the broader community. But for now, this will do. :D

![](images/pixel-art-gallery-proto.png)
_[Pixel Art Gallery](https://github.com/PakkuDon/pixel-art-gallery) on November 1 2020 [(commit cf37d41)](https://github.com/PakkuDon/pixel-art-gallery/tree/cf37d41db7f965e49fa8a3245699b068c92d9f09). First iteration where pixel art images were displayed_

So what advice could I give to someone thinking of getting into pixel art? These have likely been said elsewhere, but here's some of my thoughts:

- Start small. The more details you try to include or the larger your canvas, the longer it's going to take to finish drawing. I found 64x64px to be a comfortable canvas size to start with, but 32x32px or 16x16px canvases are also common.
- Follow pixel artists and join some communities. You can learn a lot from seeing how other people draw.
- Find some tutorials. There's plenty on Twitter, YouTube or other social media platforms.
- Keep practicing. Progress is not always linear but your skills will improve over time.
- Most importantly, have fun! Hobbies are not meant to be stressful. Take things at your own pace. At the end of the day we're all in this capitalist hellscape together. 🔥

Thanks for reading this post. See you at the next one! 👋
